docs(evaluate): document rubric_based_multi_turn_trajectory_quality_v1 and clarify Rubric.type / criterion.rubrics (#1853)
google/adk-docs: docs/evaluate/criteria.md

          "rubric_id": "conciseness",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "The agent's response is direct and to the point."
          },

>           "type": "FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"

Reviewer: `type` on a criterion-level rubric has no effect (it's only used to filter `EvalCase.rubrics`). Adding it here implies criterion rubrics are type-filtered, which they aren't. Recommend removing these two `type` lines, or moving the demonstration into a separate short `EvalCase.rubrics` snippet where `type` actually matters.

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/9dd97146331a825215746956334c90d496a9f039 (removed the inert type) and https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/bdc5869db0656701cd1fec853c44cd5fdf0a2f29 (relocated the demonstration to an EvalCase.rubrics snippet).

        },
        {
          "rubric_id": "intent_inference",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "The agent's response accurately infers the user's underlying goal from ambiguous queries."
          },
          "type": "FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Notes On Rubrics

- Rubrics on `EvalConfig.criteria["rubric_based_final_response_quality_v1"].rubrics` **must be non-empty** — `RubricBasedEvaluator` asserts this at init time.
- Rubrics on `EvalCase.rubrics` are *additive* on top of the criterion-level list, not a replacement. The effective rubric set passed to the judge is the union of both.

> - Only rubrics whose `type` field is `"FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"` are picked up by this criterion. Rubrics with other `type` values (e.g. `"TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"`, `"TOOL_USE_QUALITY"`) are ignored.

Reviewer: This is inaccurate for criterion-level rubrics. In `create_effective_rubrics_list`, only rubrics from `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type`; the criterion-level `rubrics` in `EvalConfig` are added unconditionally regardless of `type`. As written, a reader will think their `EvalConfig` rubrics get dropped unless `type` matches.

```suggestion
- Rubrics supplied per-case via `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type`: only those whose `type` is `"FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"` are merged in. Criterion-level rubrics in `EvalConfig` are **not** filtered by `type`.
```

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/299bc8cdbe0202175c762c4f249c9cb157d9ecdc

          "rubric_id": "geocoding_called",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "The agent calls the GeoCoding tool before calling the GetWeather tool."
          },

>           "type": "TOOL_USE_QUALITY"

Reviewer: Same as the final-response example: remove `type` from these criterion-level rubrics, or demonstrate it in an `EvalCase.rubrics` example instead, since `type` is inert at the criterion level.

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/9dd97146331a825215746956334c90d496a9f039 (removed the inert type) and https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/bdc5869db0656701cd1fec853c44cd5fdf0a2f29 (relocated the demonstration to an EvalCase.rubrics snippet).

        },
        {
          "rubric_id": "getweather_called",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "The agent calls the GetWeather tool with coordinates derived from the user's location."
          },
          "type": "TOOL_USE_QUALITY"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Notes On Rubrics

- Rubrics on `EvalConfig.criteria["rubric_based_tool_use_quality_v1"].rubrics` **must be non-empty** — `RubricBasedEvaluator` asserts this at init time.
- Rubrics on `EvalCase.rubrics` are *additive* on top of the criterion-level list, not a replacement. The effective rubric set passed to the judge is the union of both.

> - Only rubrics whose `type` field is `"TOOL_USE_QUALITY"` are picked up by this criterion. Rubrics with other `type` values (e.g. `"FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"`, `"TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"`) are ignored.

Reviewer: Same scoping issue: only `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type` in `create_effective_rubrics_list`. Criterion-level rubrics are added unconditionally.

```suggestion
- Rubrics supplied per-case via `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type`: only those whose `type` is `"TOOL_USE_QUALITY"` are merged in. Criterion-level rubrics in `EvalConfig` are **not** filtered by `type`.
```

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/299bc8cdbe0202175c762c4f249c9cb157d9ecdc

judge produces a `yes` (1.0) or `no` (0.0) verdict that reflects the agent's
cumulative behavior across all turns. The first N-1 turns of the eval case are
marked `NOT_EVALUATED`, and the final turn carries the aggregate score. Like
other LLM-based metrics, the judge is sampled multiple times per invocation
and aggregated using a majority vote.

### How To Use This Criterion?

This criterion uses `RubricsBasedCriterion`. Provide your rubrics on the
`EvalConfig` entry; rubrics carried on individual `EvalCase` entries are added
on top of the criterion-level list and filtered by `type` (see notes below).

Example `EvalConfig` entry:

```json
{
  "criteria": {
    "rubric_based_multi_turn_trajectory_quality_v1": {
      "threshold": 0.7,
      "judge_model_options": {
        "judge_model": "gemini-flash-latest",
        "num_samples": 5
      },
      "rubrics": [
        {
          "rubric_id": "elicits_individual_factors",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "The agent asks about individual factors (age, prior conditions, current medication) before giving any individualized advice."
          },

>           "type": "TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"

Reviewer: Same as above: `type` on criterion-level rubrics is inert (only `EvalCase.rubrics` are type-filtered). Remove or relocate to an `EvalCase.rubrics` example.

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/9dd97146331a825215746956334c90d496a9f039 (removed the inert type) and https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/bdc5869db0656701cd1fec853c44cd5fdf0a2f29 (relocated the demonstration to an EvalCase.rubrics snippet).

        },
        {
          "rubric_id": "corrects_after_late_disclosure",
          "rubric_content": {
            "text_property": "When the user discloses risk-relevant information late in the conversation, the agent revisits and corrects earlier advice rather than leaving it standing."
          },

>           "type": "TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"

Reviewer: Same as line 461: `type` here is inert (criterion-level rubric). Remove both, or move to an `EvalCase.rubrics` example.

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/9dd97146331a825215746956334c90d496a9f039 (removed the inert type) and https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/bdc5869db0656701cd1fec853c44cd5fdf0a2f29 (relocated the demonstration to an EvalCase.rubrics snippet).

        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Notes On Rubrics

- Rubrics on `EvalConfig.criteria["rubric_based_multi_turn_trajectory_quality_v1"].rubrics` **must be non-empty** — `RubricBasedEvaluator` asserts this at init time.
- Rubrics on `EvalCase.rubrics` are *additive* on top of the criterion-level list, not a replacement. The effective rubric set passed to the judge is the union of both.

> - Only rubrics whose `type` field is `"TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"` are picked up by this criterion. Rubrics with other `type` values (e.g. `"FINAL_RESPONSE_QUALITY"`, `"TOOL_USE_QUALITY"`) are ignored.

Reviewer: Same scoping issue: only `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type`. Criterion-level rubrics are added unconditionally.

```suggestion
- Rubrics supplied per-case via `EvalCase.rubrics` are filtered by `type`: only those whose `type` is `"TRAJECTORY_QUALITY"` are merged in. Criterion-level rubrics in `EvalConfig` are **not** filtered by `type`.
```

Author: Thank you for your comment. Fixed: https://github.com/google/adk-docs/pull/1853/commits/299bc8cdbe0202175c762c4f249c9cb157d9ecdc
